docs/style/hooks/factory.md, before:

# Style Factory Hook

The `hooks/style/factory.tsx` file provides a custom React hook for rendering style-related UI components in the editor. It centralizes logic for rendering value editors and position selectors for CSS properties, making it easy to build consistent, context-aware style editing interfaces.

## What is factory.tsx?

- `factory.tsx` exports the `useStyleFactory` hook, which returns an object with factory methods for rendering style-related components.
- The hook integrates with the style manager and property definitions to provide context-aware editors for CSS property values.

## What is it used for?

- **Value Editing:**  
  Renders a `Value` component for editing a specific CSS property, handling value changes and validation.
- **Position Selection:**  
  Renders a `PositionSelect` component for selecting sides or corners (e.g., for padding, margin, border-radius).
- **Abstraction:**  
  Provides a unified interface for rendering style editors, reducing boilerplate in style panels and property editors.

# Style Factory Hook

The `hooks/style/factory.tsx` file provides a custom React hook for rendering style-related UI components in the editor. It centralizes logic for rendering value editors and position selectors for CSS properties, making it easy to build consistent, context-aware style editing interfaces.

## What is factory.tsx?

- `factory.tsx` exports the `useStyleFactory` hook, which returns an object with factory methods for rendering style-related components.
- The hook integrates with the style manager and property definitions to provide context-aware editors for CSS property values.

## What is it used for?

- **Value Editing:**  
  Renders a `Value` component for editing a specific CSS property, handling value changes and validation.
- **Position Selection:**  
  Renders a `PositionSelect` component for selecting sides or corners (e.g., for padding, margin, border-radius).
- **Abstraction:**  
  Provides a unified interface for rendering style editors, reducing boilerplate in style panels and property editors.

## Main Methods

### renderPositionSelect

Renders a `PositionSelect` component for selecting sides or corners.

- **Parameters:**  
  - `setCurrentSide: (side: Side) => void` — Callback for side selection.
  - `setCurrentCorner: (corner: Corner) => void` — Callback for corner selection.
  - `isCornerSelectable: boolean` — Whether corners are selectable.
  - `isCenterSelectable: boolean` — Whether the center is selectable.
- **Returns:** `ReactElement` — The rendered `PositionSelect` component.

---

## Example Usage

```tsx
import { useStyleFactory } from "@/hooks/style/factory";
import { useSelectedBlockID } from "@/hooks/block/manager";
import Value from "@/editors/block/components/style/value/component";

const { renderPositionSelect } = useStyleFactory();
const selectedBlockID = useSelectedBlockID();

// Render a value editor for 'padding-top' using the new pattern
const PaddingTopEditor = selectedBlockID ? (
  <Value blockID={selectedBlockID} propertyName="padding-top" />
) : null;

// Render a position selector
const PositionSelector = renderPositionSelect(
  setCurrentSide,
  setCurrentCorner,
  true,   // isCornerSelectable
  false   // isCenterSelectable
);
```

---

## Notes

- The hook uses the style manager for getting and setting property values.
- Property definitions are sourced from `StyleDefinitions`.
- Use this hook in style panels or property editors to keep UI---

## Notes

- The hook uses the style manager for getting and setting property values.
- Property definitions are sourced from `StyleDefinitions`.
- Use this hook in style panels or property editors to keep UI

Commit message:

Refactor(Generic): Major architecture refactoring and performance improvements
## File System Reorganization
- Moved all core logic to src/page-builder/core/ for better organization
- Separated utilities, helpers, managers, and stores with clear responsibility boundaries

## Registry System Enhancement
- Enhanced registry to support comprehensive UI component registration:
  - Panels and panel tabs for viewport organization
  - Bars and bar actions for toolbar functionality
  - Page actions for document-level operations
  - Views for viewport customization
  - Benches for workbench management
- Improved developer experience with extensible registration APIs

## Architecture Improvements
- **Layered Architecture** with clear separation of concerns:
  - utilities/ - Pure functions with no side effects
  - helpers/ - Validation, logging, and utility functions
  - managers/ - Business logic orchestration
  - stores/ - Pure state management methods
- Enhanced global and core type definitions
- **Constants Refactoring** - Migrated large constant objects to JSON files:
  - attributes.json - Block attribute definitions
  - elements.json - HTML element configurations
  - tokens.json - CSS token definitions
  - token-defaults.json - Default token values
  - style.json - CSS property definitions with syntax and descriptions

## Performance Optimizations
- Implemented granular memoization strategies
- **Render Optimization**:
  - Block changes now only re-render the affected block
  - Attribute/style changes only re-render specific input components
  - Eliminated unnecessary layout re-renders
- Preserved performance-critical lazy getters for expensive CSS syntax parsing operations

docs/style/hooks/factory.md, after:

# Style Factory Hook

The `hooks/style/factory.tsx` file provides a custom React hook for rendering style-related UI components in the editor. It centralizes logic for rendering value editors and position selectors for CSS properties, making it easy to build consistent, context-aware style editing interfaces.

## What is factory.tsx?

- `factory.tsx` exports the `useStyleFactory` hook, which returns an object with factory methods for rendering style-related components.
- The hook integrates with the style manager and property definitions to provide context-aware editors for CSS property values.

## What is it used for?

- **Value Editing:**  
  Renders a `Value` component for editing a specific CSS property, handling value changes and validation.
- **Position Selection:**  
  Renders a `PositionSelect` component for selecting sides or corners (e.g., for padding, margin, border-radius).
- **Abstraction:**  
  Provides a unified interface for rendering style editors, reducing boilerplate in style LayoutPanels and property editors.

# Style Factory Hook

The `hooks/style/factory.tsx` file provides a custom React hook for rendering style-related UI components in the editor. It centralizes logic for rendering value editors and position selectors for CSS properties, making it easy to build consistent, context-aware style editing interfaces.

## What is factory.tsx?

- `factory.tsx` exports the `useStyleFactory` hook, which returns an object with factory methods for rendering style-related components.
- The hook integrates with the style manager and property definitions to provide context-aware editors for CSS property values.

## What is it used for?

- **Value Editing:**  
  Renders a `Value` component for editing a specific CSS property, handling value changes and validation.
- **Position Selection:**  
  Renders a `PositionSelect` component for selecting sides or corners (e.g., for padding, margin, border-radius).
- **Abstraction:**  
  Provides a unified interface for rendering style editors, reducing boilerplate in style LayoutPanels and property editors.

## Main Methods

### renderPositionSelect

Renders a `PositionSelect` component for selecting sides or corners.

- **Parameters:**  
  - `setCurrentSide: (side: Side) => void` — Callback for side selection.
  - `setCurrentCorner: (corner: Corner) => void` — Callback for corner selection.
  - `isCornerSelectable: boolean` — Whether corners are selectable.
  - `isCenterSelectable: boolean` — Whether the center is selectable.
- **Returns:** `ReactElement` — The rendered `PositionSelect` component.

---

## Example Usage

```tsx
import { useStyleFactory } from "@/hooks/style/factory";
import { useSelectedBlockID } from "@/hooks/block/manager";
import Value from "@/modules/editors/block/components/style/value/component";

const { renderPositionSelect } = useStyleFactory();
const selectedBlockID = useSelectedBlockID();

// Render a value editor for 'padding-top' using the new pattern
const PaddingTopEditor = selectedBlockID ? (
  <Value blockID={selectedBlockID} propertyName="padding-top" />
) : null;

// Render a position selector
const PositionSelector = renderPositionSelect(
  setCurrentSide,
  setCurrentCorner,
  true,   // isCornerSelectable
  false   // isCenterSelectable
);
```

---

## Notes

- The hook uses the style manager for getting and setting property values.
- Property definitions are sourced from `StyleDefinitions`.
- Use this hook in style LayoutPanels or property editors to keep UI---

## Notes

- The hook uses the style manager for getting and setting property values.
- Property definitions are sourced from `StyleDefinitions`.
- Use this hook in style LayoutPanels or property editors to keep UI
