docs/style/constants/unit.md, before:

# CSS Unit

A CSS unit defines the measurement system or scale for a value in CSS, such as pixels (`px`), ems (`em`), percentages (`%`), or angles (`deg`). Units are used to specify the magnitude and type of values for CSS properties, enabling flexible and precise control over layout, sizing, and other style aspects.

## Constants
The `constants/style/units.ts` file serves as the main lookup table for CSS unit definitions in this project. It provides structured metadata and grouping information for each supported CSS unit, enabling robust parsing, validation, and UI generation.

### What is units.ts?

- `units.ts` is a TypeScript module that exports an object mapping CSS unit names (e.g., `px`, `em`, `fr`, `%`, `deg`) to their definitions.
- Each unit definition includes:
  - The canonical unit name
  - The value string (e.g., `0px`, `0em`)
  - The unit category (e.g., relative, absolute)
  - The dimension group (e.g., length, angle, percentage)
  - The support status (e.g., widely, not widely)
  - All metadata needed for validation and UI rendering

### What is it used for?

- **Parsing:**
    - The parser does not directly utilize `units.ts`.
- **Validation:**
  - User input is checked against the allowed units for the property and data type.
- **UI Generation:**
  - The slot-based editor uses the unit definitions to populate dropdowns, radio selects, and suggestions for unit selection.
- **Documentation and Tooling:**
  - The unit definitions can be used to generate documentation, code completion, and other tooling features.

### Example Structure

```ts
export const CSSUnitDefs = {
  px: { name: 'px', value: '0px', category: 'absolute', dimensionGroup: 'length', supported: 'widely' },
  em: { name: 'em', value: '0em', category: 'relative', dimensionGroup: 'length', supported: 'widely' },
  fr: { name: 'fr', value: '0fr', category: 'relative', dimensionGroup: 'flex', supported: 'widely' },
  deg: { name: 'deg', value: '0deg', category: 'absolute', dimensionGroup: 'angle', supported: 'widely' },
  '%': { name: '%', value: '0%', category: 'relative', dimensionGroup: 'percentage', supported: 'widely' },
  // ...more units
};
```

- The `CSSUnitDefs` object provides all metadata for each unit, which is used throughout the style system for parsing, validation, and UI generation.

Commit message:

refactor(style):Improve and organize documentation for value, function, and dimension utilities
- Cleaned up and clarified the Value section in editor.md
- Added and linked separate docs for function, dimension, and option utilities under Value "See Also"
- Improved structure and consistency of documentation references

docs/style/constants/unit.md, after:

# CSS Unit Constants

The `constants/style/units.ts` file serves as the main lookup table for CSS unit definitions in this project. It provides structured metadata and grouping information for each supported CSS unit, enabling robust parsing, validation, and UI generation.

## What is units.ts?

- `units.ts` is a TypeScript module that exports an object mapping CSS unit names (e.g., `px`, `em`, `fr`, `%`, `deg`) to their definitions.
- Each unit definition includes:
  - **`type`** The string 'unit', indicating this is a unit definition object.
  - **`name`** The canonical unit name.
  - **`value`** The default value string for the unit.
  - **`supported`** Indicates the support status of the unit (e.g., 'widely', 'not widely').
  - **`category`** The unit category, such as 'relative' or 'absolute'.
  - **`dimensionGroup`** The dimension group this unit belongs to (e.g., 'length', 'angle', 'percentage').


## What is it used for?

- **Parsing:**
    - The parser does not directly utilize `units.ts`.
- **Validation:**
  - User input is checked against the allowed units for the property and data type.
- **UI Generation:**
  - The slot-based editor uses the unit definitions to populate dropdowns, radio selects, and suggestions for unit selection.
- **Documentation and Tooling:**
  - The unit definitions can be used to generate documentation, code completion, and other tooling features.

## Example Structure

```ts
export const CSSUnitDefs = {
  px: {
     type: 'unit',
     name: 'px',
     value: '0px',
     category: 'absolute',
     dimensionGroup: 'length',
     supported: 'widely'
  },
  '%': {
     type: 'unit',
     name: '%',
     value: '0%',
     category: 'relative',
     dimensionGroup: 'percentage',
     supported: 'widely'
  },
  // ...more units
};
```
